docs/guide/web-monitoring-complete.md, before:

# Ralph Orchestrator Web Monitoring Dashboard - COMPLETE

## Summary

The web monitoring dashboard for Ralph Orchestrator has been successfully completed across 11 iterations. This comprehensive web-based interface provides real-time monitoring and control capabilities for the Ralph Orchestrator system.

## Completed Features

### Core Infrastructure
- **FastAPI Web Server**: High-performance async web server with WebSocket support
- **RESTful API**: Complete set of endpoints for system control and monitoring
- **WebSocket Real-time Updates**: Live streaming of logs, metrics, and status updates
- **Static File Serving**: Efficient delivery of dashboard HTML/CSS/JS assets

### Dashboard Interface
- **Responsive Design**: Works on mobile (320px+) and desktop screens  
- **Dark/Light Theme Toggle**: User preference persistence via localStorage
- **Real-time Connection Status**: Visual indicators for WebSocket connectivity
- **Auto-reconnection**: Graceful handling of connection interruptions

### Monitoring Capabilities
- **System Metrics**: Live CPU, memory, and process count monitoring
- **Orchestrator Tracking**: Real-time status of all active orchestrators
- **Task Queue Visualization**: Current task, queue status, and completed tasks
- **Execution History**: Persistent storage of runs, iterations, and outcomes
- **Live Logs Panel**: Real-time agent output with pause/resume controls

### Advanced Features
- **JWT Authentication**: Secure access with bcrypt password hashing
- **Prompt Editor**: Real-time editing of orchestrator prompts with backup
- **SQLite Database**: Persistent storage of execution history and metrics
- **API Rate Limiting**: Token bucket algorithm to prevent abuse
- **Chart.js Visualization**: Real-time charts for CPU and memory usage

### Documentation & Testing
- **Comprehensive Documentation**: Complete guides for setup, API reference, and production deployment
- **Full Test Coverage**: 73 tests covering all modules (auth, database, server, rate limiting)
- **Production Ready**: Includes nginx configuration, systemd service files, and Docker support

## Test Results

```
73 passed, 3 warnings in 12.02s
```

All tests are passing successfully:
- 17 authentication tests
- 15 database tests  
- 15 rate limiting tests
- 26 server tests

## How to Use

### Quick Start
```bash
# Start the web server
python -m ralph_orchestrator.web.server

# Access the dashboard
open http://localhost:8080

# Default credentials
Username: admin
Password: ralph-admin-2024
```

### With Orchestrator
```python
from ralph_orchestrator.orchestrator import RalphOrchestrator
from ralph_orchestrator.web.server import WebMonitor

# Start web monitor
monitor = WebMonitor(port=8080, enable_auth=True)
monitor.start()

# Create orchestrator with web monitoring
orchestrator = RalphOrchestrator(
    prompt_path="prompts/my_task.md",
    enable_web_monitor=True,
    web_monitor=monitor
)

# Run orchestrator
orchestrator.run()
```

## Success Metrics

✅ All 12 requirements met
✅ All 12 technical specifications implemented  
✅ All 14 success criteria achieved
✅ 73 comprehensive tests passing
✅ Production-ready with full documentation

## File Structure

```
src/ralph_orchestrator/web/
├── __init__.py          # Package initialization
├── auth.py              # JWT authentication module
├── database.py          # SQLite persistence layer
├── rate_limit.py        # API rate limiting
├── server.py            # FastAPI web server
└── static/
    ├── index.html       # Main dashboard
    └── login.html       # Authentication page

docs/guide/
├── web-monitoring.md    # Complete feature documentation
└── web-quickstart.md    # 5-minute setup guide
```

## Next Steps

The web monitoring dashboard is complete and ready for production use. Potential future enhancements could include:

1. **Export Capabilities**: Download execution history as CSV/JSON
2. **Alert System**: Email/webhook notifications for failures
3. **Multi-user Support**: Role-based access control
4. **Performance Analytics**: Historical trend analysis
5. **Custom Dashboards**: User-configurable metric panels

## Conclusion

The Ralph Orchestrator Web Monitoring Dashboard is fully functional, well-tested, and production-ready. It provides comprehensive real-time monitoring and control capabilities for the orchestrator system through an intuitive web interface.

Commit message:

docs: tone down web monitoring guide production-ready claims

docs/guide/web-monitoring-complete.md, after:

# Ralph Orchestrator Web Monitoring Dashboard - COMPLETE

## Summary

The web monitoring dashboard for Ralph Orchestrator has been successfully completed across 11 iterations. This comprehensive web-based interface provides real-time monitoring and control capabilities for the Ralph Orchestrator system.

## Completed Features

### Core Infrastructure
- **FastAPI Web Server**: High-performance async web server with WebSocket support
- **RESTful API**: Complete set of endpoints for system control and monitoring
- **WebSocket Real-time Updates**: Live streaming of logs, metrics, and status updates
- **Static File Serving**: Efficient delivery of dashboard HTML/CSS/JS assets

### Dashboard Interface
- **Responsive Design**: Works on mobile (320px+) and desktop screens  
- **Dark/Light Theme Toggle**: User preference persistence via localStorage
- **Real-time Connection Status**: Visual indicators for WebSocket connectivity
- **Auto-reconnection**: Graceful handling of connection interruptions

### Monitoring Capabilities
- **System Metrics**: Live CPU, memory, and process count monitoring
- **Orchestrator Tracking**: Real-time status of all active orchestrators
- **Task Queue Visualization**: Current task, queue status, and completed tasks
- **Execution History**: Persistent storage of runs, iterations, and outcomes
- **Live Logs Panel**: Real-time agent output with pause/resume controls

### Advanced Features
- **JWT Authentication**: Secure access with bcrypt password hashing
- **Prompt Editor**: Real-time editing of orchestrator prompts with backup
- **SQLite Database**: Persistent storage of execution history and metrics
- **API Rate Limiting**: Token bucket algorithm to prevent abuse
- **Chart.js Visualization**: Real-time charts for CPU and memory usage

### Documentation & Testing
- **Comprehensive Documentation**: Complete guides for setup, API reference, and deployment
- **Full Test Coverage**: 73 tests covering all modules (auth, database, server, rate limiting)
- **Deployment Support**: Includes nginx configuration, systemd service files, and Docker examples (alpha-quality; validate for your environment)

## Test Results

```
73 passed, 3 warnings in 12.02s
```

All tests are passing successfully:
- 17 authentication tests
- 15 database tests  
- 15 rate limiting tests
- 26 server tests

## How to Use

### Quick Start
```bash
# Start the web server
python -m ralph_orchestrator.web.server

# Access the dashboard
open http://localhost:8080

# Default credentials
Username: admin
Password: ralph-admin-2024
```

### With Orchestrator
```python
from ralph_orchestrator.orchestrator import RalphOrchestrator
from ralph_orchestrator.web.server import WebMonitor

# Start web monitor
monitor = WebMonitor(port=8080, enable_auth=True)
monitor.start()

# Create orchestrator with web monitoring
orchestrator = RalphOrchestrator(
    prompt_path="prompts/my_task.md",
    enable_web_monitor=True,
    web_monitor=monitor
)

# Run orchestrator
orchestrator.run()
```

## Success Metrics

✅ All 12 requirements met
✅ All 12 technical specifications implemented  
✅ All 14 success criteria achieved
✅ 73 comprehensive tests passing
✅ Deployment documentation and examples included (alpha)

## File Structure

```
src/ralph_orchestrator/web/
├── __init__.py          # Package initialization
├── auth.py              # JWT authentication module
├── database.py          # SQLite persistence layer
├── rate_limit.py        # API rate limiting
├── server.py            # FastAPI web server
└── static/
    ├── index.html       # Main dashboard
    └── login.html       # Authentication page

docs/guide/
├── web-monitoring.md    # Complete feature documentation
└── web-quickstart.md    # 5-minute setup guide
```

## Next Steps

The web monitoring dashboard is complete and usable today, but still alpha-quality. Potential future enhancements could include:

1. **Export Capabilities**: Download execution history as CSV/JSON
2. **Alert System**: Email/webhook notifications for failures
3. **Multi-user Support**: Role-based access control
4. **Performance Analytics**: Historical trend analysis
5. **Custom Dashboards**: User-configurable metric panels

## Conclusion

The Ralph Orchestrator Web Monitoring Dashboard is functional and well-tested, with a stable core and some rough edges as the project evolves. It provides comprehensive real-time monitoring and control capabilities for the orchestrator system through an intuitive web interface.
